moving on now to what's happening in the
occupied West Bank Israeli forces have
carried out major raids across the West
Bank killing at least three Palestinians
dozens of military vehicles were
confronted by Palestinian fighters in
Janine all five hospitals in Janine were
surrounded 203 Palestinians have been
killed in Israeli raids in the occupied
West Bank since October the 7th Z BVI
joins us live from romala um in the West
Bank saying tell us about these raids
and why hospitals were being surrounded
well certainly Janine was the major
flash point in overnight raids in the
last 12 to 24 hours but just before we
get into that some information we have
coming into us just in the last hour of
another shooting incident at a
checkpoint the second in as many days
north of Hebron the details are still
coming into us but what we understand is
that there was a shooting incident at a
checkpoint north of Hebron a vehicle
Crossing two Palestinians have been
reportedly killed in that incident they
were shot inside their vehicles we have
so far just the account from the Israeli
uh side of things from the Israeli
military suggesting that this was an
attempted shooting attack and that these
two men were killed we'll get more
details on that as soon as they come
into us here in ramala but again the
second such incident in as many days in
terms of what happened in Janine Janine
has become a major flasho in and around
the city in and around the refugee camp
there since this War began the the raids
have been consistently targeting Janine
10:30 p.m. local night a large Force
went into the area around the camp with
bulldozers armored vehicles a large
number of Israeli soldiers they uh were
met with Palestinians who retaliated
throwing rocks but also using explosives
on those positions we've seen an
observable rise in the amount of
explosives and small arms being used by
resistance forces on the Palestinian
side to these raids uh a drone strike
carried out by the Israelis killed at
least three people one of them said to
be a leader of the Janine Battalion of
the military wing of Islamic Jihad 14
Palestinians were injured many of them
remain in critical condition and we saw
the Israeli forces um reportedly pursue
the injured uh stopping ambulances going
into the hospital reportedly in an
attempt to try to uh arrest and detain
the people injured in those altercations
with Israeli soldiers we saw paramedics
being called out with their hands raised
questioned and interrogated doctors were
also told to come out of the hospital
and and uh surrender themselves they
refused saying that they were taking
care of their patients now Janine is a
major flash point we've seen at least
203 people killed since the O in the
occupied West Bank since the war on Gaza
began 25% of those deaths happened in
Janine and that is because this area is
a major area of operations for
Palestinian fighting groups the military
wings of different political factions
are concentrated there and the Israelis
are very keen to make sure that the
occupied West Bank these areas don't
become another major flash point they're
tackling Hezbollah on the border with
Lebanon they've got the war on Gaza they
don't want Janine they don't want the
occupied West Bank to become a major
area of operations continuously putting
pressure on communities here which
people here say is counterintuitive that
Palestinian positions are hardening and
the push back is growing but in any case
that figure 25% of the deaths happening
in and around Janine really tells you
how seriously Israeli forces are taking
what they see as the threat emanating
from there Zay basravi reporting in rala
I also note you were telling us about
Janine but earlier you were telling us
about this incident that breaking news
on a shooting incident near hibron so
you'll give us more information on that
I know as soon as you get it zaye thank
you very much